---
layout: post
title:  "Getting Things Done in Asana (#2)"
---
I organize my work in Asana per David Allen's [Getting Things Done](https://www.amazon.com/Getting-Things-Done-Stress-Free-Productivity/dp/0143126563/) (
[summary](https://www.samuelthomasdavies.com/book-summaries/business/getting-things-done/)) because it helps me keep track of and make progress on lots of things.

Here I describe the mechanics of how I implement Getting Things Done (GTD) in
Asana in order to (hopefully) help others looking for ways to implement GTD.

# Why Asana?

I use Asana because it's digital, free, and I was already familiar with it from
work.  I originally kept track of all my work and tasks in a paper notebook.  I
made little boxes next to my tasks and it was a delight to cross off a box when
I finished something.  But I think digital is better than paper for organizing
work because I can easily expand the space I use for something (e.g. if I want
to add notes into the middle of a block of text) and it's easier to copy and
re-organize digital things.

# How I use Asana

I create an Asana project for each of my GTD categories of Projects, Next
Actions, Waiting for, Tickler, Someday, and Areas of focus.  Note that the word
"project" is overloaded here (ugh) and can refer to either an Asana project
or a GTD project.

## Projects

I use "Projects" for things that I want to work on now and plan to finish
within the next year or so (e.g. Plan team retreat).

For each Asana task in "Projects", I create an Asana sub-task for its GTD next
action and add that sub-task to the Asana project "Next Actions".  I use Asana
keyboard shortcuts to speed up this workflow.  When in the detail view for a
task, tab+s creates a sub-task.  When selecting a sub-task, tab+right-arrow
goes to the detail view for the sub-task.  When in the detail view for a task,
tab+p allows assigning the task to an Asana project.

If one of my GTD projects is blocked on something I'm waiting for, I create a
sub-task for that project and add that sub-task to the "Waiting for" Asana
project.  If I should follow up on the blocker at some point, I assign the
sub-task to myself and set the due date to when I should follow up.  I also
move the blocked GTD project to the "Waiting for" section within the
"Projects" Asana project so that I won't always see it when reviewing open GTD
projects.

If one of my GTD projects is blocked on something that I can't do now but will
be able to do at some point in the future, I create a sub-task for that
project, add that sub-task to the "Tickler" Asana project, assign that sub-task
to myself, and set the due date of the sub-task to the date when I'll be able
to act on it.  I also move the blocked GTD project to the "Tickler" section
within the "Projects" Asana project.

## Next Actions

I use "Next Actions" for the smallest next step that moves a particular GTD
project forward.  I create all the Asana tasks in "Next Actions" as part of the
"Projects" workflow described above.

## Waiting for

I use "Waiting for" for things that I'm waiting for someone else to do.  If I
should follow up by a certain date, I assign the task to myself and set the due
date to when I should follow up.  Tasks in "Waiting for" can be sub-tasks of
tasks in "Projects" but can also be standalone.

## Tickler

I use "Tickler" for things that I want to do at a specific point in the future
(e.g. "Pay estimated taxes" or "When in DC, reach out to Christina").  For the
tasks that I should do on a specific date, I assign the task to myself and set
the due date.  Tasks in "Tickler" can be sub-tasks of tasks in "Projects" but
can also be standalone.  When I can start working on something in "Tickler"
(e.g. Pay estimated taxes), I sometimes move it to "Projects" and create its
next action (e.g. Find estimated tax filing instructions).

## Someday

I use "Someday" for things I might want to do at some point in the future.  I
have Asana sections within "Someday" for categories like Recipes, Books, etc.

## Areas of focus

I use "Areas of focus" for high-level, important things that I want my specific
actions to contribute to (e.g. Cultivate inspiration).  I have around four
areas of focus and I update them once or twice a year.  It's helpful for me to
review my areas of focus as part of reviewing everything because I'm reminded
of what's important when prioritizing current and potential projects.

# Example

You can see an example Asana workspace organized for GTD by logging into Asana
using reverse-letters(elpmaxedtg+ronnoctj)@gmail.com and
reverse-letters(enodsgnihtehtllagnitteg).  Note to replace the reverse-letters() sections with the contained letters reversed, e.g. reverse-letters(cba) => abc.
