---
layout: post
title:  "Speaking Fee Bribery"
---

Bribery of high government officials may be happening in plain sight but outside
the purview of our current anti-bribery policies.  We should update our
anti-bribery policies to prevent this kind of bribery.

Let's say I'm Goldman Sachs and I want to bribe the Treasury Secretary.  I'd be
happy to pay the Treasury Secretary directly but, though I may be rapacious and
corrupt, I'm also risk averse and don't want to be [caught and
punished](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/goldman-sachs-charged-foreign-bribery-case-and-agrees-pay-over-29-billion){:target="_blank"}. 

I have a better idea.  I'll build a track record of paying former government
officials if they treated me well when they were in office.  Then the Treasury
Secretary will know that if they do what I want, they'll get a big bribe after
they leave office.  And because there's no explicit quid pro quo, even if I'm
caught, I won't get in any trouble.  I'll just say the payment was a speaking
fee (for example: [Janet
Yellen](https://www.forbes.com/sites/joewalsh/2021/01/01/yellen-earned-72-million-in-speaking-fees-over-last-two-years/){:target="_blank"},
[Ben
Bernanke](https://www.forbes.com/sites/johntamny/2014/05/25/ben-bernankes-post-fed-speaking-fees-send-a-scary-economic-message/){:target="_blank"},
[Bill and Hillary
Clinton](https://www.cnn.com/2016/02/05/politics/hillary-clinton-bill-clinton-paid-speeches/index.html){:target="_blank"}).

It's trickier to outlaw speaking fee bribery than to outlaw direct bribery
because there's plausible deniability.  It's at least conceivable that the
speaking fees are payments for speeches.  We also don't want to penalize former
government officials for their public service by preventing them from working
and earning money after their time in office.  Still, bribery is so destructive
to government function and public trust that we should disallow speaking fee
bribery even if doing so would limit conceivably legitimate work.

We could disallow speaking fee bribery while still allowing legitimate work by
forbidding payment to a former government official if the payment is:
* likely affected by how that official's decisions in office affected the payee,
* substantially different from work payments the official received before leaving office, and
* substantially different from work payments received by the official's peers that haven't served in government.

Bribery is cancerous to effective government.  It corrupts policy and destroys
public trust.  Speaking fee bribery escapes our current anti-bribery policies
and we should update them to prevent it.

Edited 2021-07-09