---
layout: post
title:  "L'Ambroisie"
---

I ate at L’Ambroisie last night and I wouldn’t recommend it.

L’Ambroisie is a fine dining restaurant located on the Place des Vosges in
Paris.  It won its third Michelin star in 1988 and has maintained its three
stars ever since.  The French prime minister Francis Hollande chose L’Ambroisie
to entertain President Obama on his visit in 2015.  I was excited to try
excellent, classic French food at L'Ambroisie and made a reservation far in
advance of my visit to Paris.

L’Ambroisie offers an a la carte menu in French only.  I don’t speak French
very well and the waiter offered to explain the menu to us in English.  He
explained “Composé d’agneau de Lozère, salmigondis de légumes racines” as “the
lamb” and gave similarly curt descriptions for the other menu items.  If he’d
cared about us understanding the menu, he would have described the dishes to us
in English or even just plugged the menu into Google translate instead of
leaving us to figure things out with our phones.  We also weren’t the only
guests uncomfortable in French.  I didn’t hear a single native French speaker
among the other guests.  L’Ambroisie is tourist-unfriendly restaurant for
tourists.

At one point in the evening, a waiter came by to present a basket of white
truffles from Alba.  This ceremonial truffle viewing felt silly, though the
truffles were indeed very big and handsome. When the waiter presented the
truffles to an older American woman at the table next to us, she reached to
grab one.  The waiter snatched back the basket and had a big laugh at her along
with the other two waiters in the room.  Apparently this woman had never
participated in a ceremonial truffle viewing and when presented with truffles
in a basket very similar to the bread basket used to serve her bread earlier in
the evening, she figured she was supposed to take one.  The waiter said no no
these are white truffles from Alba that cost 60 euro per gram ha ha and they
were only for viewing not for taking ha ha ha.  If the waiter had cared about
this woman, he could have explained what the truffles were and why they’re
prized and maybe even shaved off a slice for her to try.  Instead, he shamed
her in front of her family.

I wonder what the point of a restaurant like L’Ambroisie is.  Food is meant to
be eaten by someone.  The best dining experiences are an expression of love and
care for the diner.  L’Ambroisie feels dedicated to something else.
